README.md, before:

# YAML Formatter for VS Code

An extension to automatically format YAML files in a consistent way in Visual Studio Code. Made for labor orchestation in GenOr

## Features

- Formats YAML files with **indentation of 2 spaces** and **unlimited line width**.
- Preserves double quotes around keys that originally had them.
- Keeps unquoted keys unquoted.
- Maintains consistent spacing and structure.
- Supports **Shift + Alt + F** (default VS Code format shortcut).
- Optionally **formats YAML on save** (configurable in settings).

## Installation

### Install from VSIX (Manual Installation)

1. Download the `.vsix` file from the [Releases](https://github.com/Ahmed-Ashraf-EGAC/yaml-formatter/releases/tag/first-release).
2. Open **VS Code**.
3. Press `Ctrl + Shift + P` and select **Extensions: Install from VSIX**.
4. Choose the downloaded `.vsix` file.
5. Reload VS Code.

## Usage

### Format YAML Manually

- Open a `.yaml` or `.yml` file.
- Press `Shift + Alt + F` (**Cmd + Shift + F** on macOS).
- The file will be formatted automatically.

### Format YAML on Save (Optional)

You can enable auto-formatting on save:

1. Open VS Code **Settings** (`Ctrl + ,`).
2. Search for `yamlFormatter.formatOnSave`.
3. Enable the setting.
4. Now, every time you save a YAML file, it will be formatted automatically.

Alternatively, add this to your `settings.json`:

```json
{
  "yamlFormatter.formatOnSave": true
}
```

## Configuration

| Setting | Type | Default | Description |
|---------|------|---------|-------------|
| `yamlFormatter.formatOnSave` | `boolean` | `false` | Automatically format YAML files on save. |

## Development

### Build and Package

If you want to modify or contribute to this extension:

1. Clone the repository.
2. Install dependencies:

   ```sh
   npm install
   ```

3. Compile the extension:

   ```sh
   npm run compile
   ```

4. Package it as a `.vsix` file:

   ```sh
   vsce package
   ```

### Running in VS Code (Development Mode)

1. Open the project folder in VS Code.
2. Press `F5` to launch a new VS Code window with the extension loaded.

## Issues & Contributions

If you find any issues or want to contribute:

- Open an issue on [GitHub](https://github.com/Ahmed-Ashraf-EGAC/yaml-formatter/issues)
- Submit a pull request with your changes.

---
Enjoy seamless YAML formatting in VS Code! 🚀

Commit message:

Update README.md and package.json to improve descriptions and add changelog reference

README.md, after:

# YAML Formatter for VS Code

An extension to automatically format YAML files in a consistent way in Visual Studio Code. Made for labor orchestration in GenOr.

## Features

- Formats YAML files with **indentation of 2 spaces** and **unlimited line width**.
- Preserves double quotes around keys that originally had them.
- Keeps unquoted keys unquoted.
- Maintains consistent spacing and structure.
- Supports **Shift + Alt + F** (default VS Code format shortcut).
- Optionally **formats YAML on save** (configurable in settings).

## Installation

### Install from VSIX (Manual Installation)

1. Download the `.vsix` file from the [Releases](https://github.com/Ahmed-Ashraf-EGAC/yaml-formatter/releases/tag/first-release).
2. Open **VS Code**.
3. Press `Ctrl + Shift + P` and select **Extensions: Install from VSIX**.
4. Choose the downloaded `.vsix` file.
5. Reload VS Code.

## Usage

### Format YAML Manually

- Open a `.yaml` or `.yml` file.
- Press `Shift + Alt + F` (**Cmd + Shift + F** on macOS).
- The file will be formatted automatically.

### Format YAML on Save (Optional)

You can enable auto-formatting on save:

1. Open VS Code **Settings** (`Ctrl + ,`).
2. Search for `yamlFormatter.formatOnSave`.
3. Enable the setting.
4. Now, every time you save a YAML file, it will be formatted automatically.

Alternatively, add this to your `settings.json`:

```json
{
  "yamlFormatter.formatOnSave": true
}
```

## Configuration

| Setting | Type | Default | Description |
|---------|------|---------|-------------|
| `yamlFormatter.formatOnSave` | `boolean` | `false` | Automatically format YAML files on save. |

## Development

### Build and Package

If you want to modify or contribute to this extension:

1. Clone the repository.
2. Install dependencies:

   ```sh
   npm install
   ```

3. Compile the extension:

   ```sh
   npm run compile
   ```

4. Package it as a `.vsix` file:

   ```sh
   vsce package
   ```

### Running in VS Code (Development Mode)

1. Open the project folder in VS Code.
2. Press `F5` to launch a new VS Code window with the extension loaded.

## Changelog

For a detailed list of changes, see the [CHANGELOG](https://github.com/Ahmed-Ashraf-EGAC/yaml-formatter/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md).

## Issues & Contributions

If you find any issues or want to contribute:

- Open an issue on [GitHub](https://github.com/Ahmed-Ashraf-EGAC/yaml-formatter/issues)
- Submit a pull request with your changes.

---
Enjoy seamless YAML formatting in VS Code! 🚀
